There has long been speculation of tunnels,
shafts and chambers within the great Sphinx and underneath it,
including the possibility of a hall of records in this video,
I'm going to share with you several key pieces of evidence that prove that not
only do these tunnels, shafts and chambers exist,
but there is an active attempt on behalf of the Egyptian authorities to prevent
the citizens of the world from knowing about it.
Let me start off by addressing the conspiracy that there is some sort of shaft
door at the top of the sphinxes head.
At least that's what many people have referred to it. As various articles,
I've looked at videos online about this, and you leave,
you see people leaving comments saying that, no, this is CGI.
There's no door at the top. That's non-existent, it's just a color fluctuation.
And it means nothing. So I decided to go looking into this for myself.
And I looked through Google images and realize that there are so few aerial
photos of the Sphinx.
Apparently the Egyptian authorities do not allow people to fly over it.
So I went to Google maps and that was useless because as you see in the largest
photo here, that is as far as you can zoom in.
So I cropped the photograph where I took a screenshot, cropped it. And I mean,
yeah, you can kind of see a white blemish there, but I mean,
what does this do for me?
So I went over to the Google earth app and look at that,
what that is just useless. It's animated. I mean,
what am I supposed to do with this? And it didn't always use to be this way.
So I decided to go back to Google images and do a ton of different searches.
I got really creative and I did find a photo from 1925.
And as you can see here, I mean, there's a guy standing in it,
but is this what a four or five foot deep cavity? Is it a shaft?
Does it go anywhere? It really doesn't show us much. But then I hit the jackpot.
I don't think anyone watching this has seen these photos.
So there's a photographer who is doing a story with the New York times back in
may of 1990. And as you can see in this photo here, yes,
that is Dr. Zahi Hiawassee himself in the middle there,
but pay close attention to the scaffolding over at the top of the sphinxes head
because in this next photo, well, just take a look for it and see for yourself.
Look at that. What is that now? I don't know what else there is.
The photographer doesn't point down there.
This is all you can see there's a hatch, but does it go anywhere?
Is there any possibility that it's related to the imaging,
the ground-penetrating radar that has discovered some sort of cavities within
the Sphinx? Could it lead to the so-called chamber at the pod,
the Sphinx as I'll be discussing here shortly,
there's obviously not enough information here to make any type of conclusion,
but clearly, no, this is not CGI.
And I find it really interesting that the Egyptian authorities have done so much
to prevent anyone from knowing about this in the first place.
Now there has been other speculation. And this brings me to my second example,
that there is some sort of shaft door at the top of the sphinxes back towards
the rear. And in fact,
Zahid was actually took people up there with a camera in 2009. And yeah,
this, this shaft door exists.
He opens it up on video and I'll include a link for the video in the description
here it's and a half minutes long. You definitely need to watch it,
but he opens up the door.
He points down and clearly you can see that at the bottom. I mean,
it goes someplace. You can tell from the shadows, which direction does it go?
I have no idea. He himself say,
it says that it leads nowhere and you go down there and there's nothing to be
seen. He says that people probably dug it out at some point, uh,
looking for treasures. Why not just put a camera attached,
a rope to a camera and lower it down. Let us see.
You can tell that it goes in some directions. So which direction does it go?
It's fine if there's nothing down there, but at least show us a photograph,
show us an image of some kind. Why is it such a secret? And don't forget,
Zahid GWAS had denied for decades that there was ever tunnels underneath the
Sphinx or in the Sphinx itself.
And he had actually changed his story multiple times as I'll discuss later in
this video, but it raises questions.
Could this lead to the cavities within the Sphinx or the detected cavity at
below it. I mean, guys,
ground-penetrating radar has shown that there's something there,
but let me go on to the next example,
which is this infamous shaft tunnel doorway at the base of the Spanx at the
rear to the left of the tail. So look at these photos here,
anyone that's visited the site, you can't see what's down there.
It goes to the left. It's too dark.
But Dr. Zahi wast himself in the same video as him going to the sphinxes
back and showing you that tunnel,
he actually goes down into this chamber and that through this shaft,
and he takes a camera guy with him and Zahi himself in this video states that it
doesn't go anywhere that he's excavated it. And there's nothing to be seen,
but the camera man doesn't even point the camera in the opposite direction.
Just, I mean, clearly it goes somewhere, right?
How difficult would it be to have the man turn around point a flashlight and let
us see what's in there? Which direction does it go? Okay.
You say there's nothing in there, but at least let us see the nothing.
Why is there not one single photo or video available to the public that shows
anything beyond this point?
And most people don't even know that this exists in itself.
What's interesting about this is that in the 1970s, a stone block came loose.
So they began an excavation where mark Lainer was part of it,
a very close associate of [inaudible] for decades.
They spent three weeks excavating this tunnel shaft.
The [inaudible] says goes nowhere. And there's nothing in it. I mean,
I know that excavations take some time, but three weeks,
if it went nowhere and there was nothing in it and they decided to go ahead and
shroud it in the process where nobody could see what they were doing. Okay.
And not to mention stories, go back centuries,
that there is a tunnel system that connects the great Sphinx and the hall of
records to the pyramids. Could this lead to that?
Now the next example I want to discuss involves with ground penetrating radar
has discovered as a cavity of some kind a chamber underneath the pod,
the Sphinx,
and this is something that's been discussed by John Anthony West Robert shock,
but [inaudible] took a team. They did some drilling and they concluded that.
Well, they found absolutely nothing that there's nothing underneath it.
And there's nothing to be seen here. So just to clarify,
is he saying that ground penetrating was wrong? Like what you know, in,
why aren't you letting anyone else see this for themselves?
Why did you cap it off and prevent any other archeologists from checking it out,
such as John Anthony and Robert shock.
But then I saw something really interesting while watching one of Brian
Forrester's videos about this topic.
He points out an incredibly interesting fact,
which is that the Sphinx itself is carved out of limestone bedrock and all
around the Sphinx itself is limestone bedrock to the left of it,
to the right of it. And in between the pause,
except for one area in front of the pause that has these stone tiles.
And you can see here that they have been starting to replace them.
They're very old and they've been doing maintenance and, uh, restorations to it.
But why would you have these stone tiles in front of the Sphinx?
The only place around that has these bile away.
And it just so happens to be located where ground-penetrating radar has
identified a cavity, a chamber of some kind.
And as you look at these other photos,
they have since covered up the entire site, at least in front of it,
with these stone tiles,
what these boardwalks could these tiles be indicative of some sort of roofing
system for the chamber below? You know, I want to point something else.
That's really interesting. So if you go to Wikipedia,
which of course I do not endorse for so many reasons,
but if you go and look up the great Sphinx and Wikipedia,
do a control F search for the words,
shaft chamber tunnel underground under Spinks,
anything under the Sphinx hall of records and not one single of these words
pops up, not one of them. Now that's really interesting.
But if you look up the hall of records, which has its own Wikipedia page,
you'll find a link to the great Sphinx. And,
and of course you'll find a link to pseudo archeology as well. Now,
if you think that Wikipedia is unreliable because of the fact that anyone can
edit it, well, that's actually no longer the case.
And it hasn't been for several years now,
Wikipedia has been bought and paid for and Cheryl Atkinson,
who I highly recommend you check out her Ted, talk about this subject,
outlines it in detail. And if you don't believe me on this,
try and do the edit yourself and see what happens. Now,
let me transition to something incredibly interesting.
Dr. [inaudible] himself went on TV.
He stated that he found a shaft 29 meters down 95 feet,
approximately that's located directly between or exactly between the
Sphinx and the second pyramid itself. Chef Ron also known as Kafra.
He stated that there's a tomb down there and most likely to be the God,
a Cyrus himself, the God of the underworld, the God of the afterlife.
And in fact, he's famous for seeing this a judgment scene, as you see here,
but you can find him everywhere else.
These depictions are in the valley of the Kings and all over the place.
And of course, it's interesting that he always has green skin.
It makes you wonder what that's about. So I came across a video.
Now this is from Fox and this was filmed. I believe in 1999,
it could have been 96, but they take a crew down there.
They take this lady and they actually go to the site.
And here I'm showing you screenshots from this video.
And I highly recommend you check out this video. The link is in the description.
It's 13 minutes long and it is fascinating, but then we get through this.
So as you can see here,
it has multiple layers or levels and the stagger off and the deepest is 95 feet
down. So they go down this chamber,
this shaft carved through solid limestone bedrock in the first,
or I should say the middle level.
There is a set of tombs and there's a sarcophagus in there as well,
even some bone fragments as well,
but the place is apparently been looted or something. So as the keep going,
and as you can see, here they go from the, by the way,
this is 55 feet or 65 feet deep.
It was hard to tell what she said in the video because of audio issues.
But as they go to the next set of shafts, that goes from that 50,
60 foot mark down to the approximately 100 feet down,
look how impressive this thing is.
So it dives down to the depths of the earth underneath the Giza plateau.
And in it,
there is this incredible burial site for massive pillars with hieroglyphs and
petroglyphs, surrounded by a water moat. And by the way,
this site was completely submerged in water. When they found it,
they had to pump it out. It took a while.
And as he shows her this massive sarcophagus,
it's still about a foot down underwater.
He thinks that it's probably a Cyrus where they weren't sure yet as they were
still conducting the, uh, excavation.
And this sarcophagus itself is nine feet long.
The lid and the box individually are approximately 11 to 12 times,
according to Zahi hos. And when the lady asks him,
how did they bring this massive thing down here? He gives a theory.
He'd said he doesn't know,
but his theory is that the would've probably done a dug a second shaft.
So first they dig the first shaft.
They fill it with sand and then they dig a second shaft right next to it and
start moving sand away. And it slowly lowers its self down by itself.
If that makes sense, except for the fact that there's no evidence for this,
this shaft, if this is indeed the case,
you'd have to be able to find it within the perimeter of the chamber itself or
immediately without outside the perimeter.
But there's some issues with this theory besides the fact that archeologists
never found it, which I mean, come on. That should be easy to find, but again,
each level it staggers between the shafts.
So how many shafts would the secondary shafts would?
They have to have Doug and again, through limestone bedrock,
that's not an easy task and look at the precision of this,
but here's where it gets even more interesting. So [inaudible] takes her too,
as you can see,
there's these two tunnels that go extend outwards from this tomb,
this burial site itself,
one of which he claims has never been excavated and he doesn't know what's down
there. This is his own words. By the way, you can watch this in the video. Well,
first of all, I don't believe that you don't know what's down there.
You didn't go take a peek, like give me a break,
but why not at least point the camera down there with the flashlight for just a
second? Why does he have to block it off like this?
Which direction do these tunnel shafts, these, these tunnels go.
That's an incredibly important question.
Considering the fact that these legends of a hall of records being located under
the Sphinx connects from an underground tunnel from the Sphinx to the pyramids
themselves. You know, this is the same guy that is back in Egypt,
despite being fired from the minister of antiquities of Egypt,
for his corruption. Despite the fact that a few years after his firing,
he was implicated in a massive theft of artifacts from a pyramid.
And this is what he's implicated in.
He gets off the hook and now he's chosen to be the guy leading the entire
excavation for the three mysteriously discovered, uh,
chambers within the great pyramid itself, as you may have seen in the news,
and I've discussed this in multiple other videos, he is the guy leading that,
that, uh, discovery,
the same guy who changed his story multiple times about the very
existence of chambers and tunnels.
And the Sphinx itself has denied all that went back and forth only to say, well,
there is some tunnels in some shafts, but they don't go anywhere.
There's nothing to see. We have to start connecting the dots on this.
There are shafts, there are tunnels. They don't show us any information. I mean,
isn't it pretty odd that there's not a single photograph or video of anything
down underneath. They show us only a little bit and then just stop there.
Is that not suspicious or the fact that they clearly control Wikipedia?
I mean these anonymous moderators, I mean,
it's bought and paid for who do you think is doing it? Wherever is doing it.
It's not an accident that they completely omit tunnels. Shafts,
chambers hall of records, all from the Wikipedia page of the great Sphinx.
And regardless of whether you never even look at Wikipedia,
it is still the world's most utilized source of information.
It's not an accident that shows up at the very top of any Google search.
So that's important because this is deceiving.
The citizens of the world they're omitting information. The cover-up is real.
There's enough information to conclude that there's something there.
We know this. So the question becomes,
does that tunnel shaft that he showed us on TV on Fox decades
ago? Does that lead to, or from the great Sphinx? I'll close up there.
I'm Jimmy, this is bright insight like and subscribe and leave me a comment.
Let me know what your thoughts are.
Many more videos to come and a whole wide variety of topics. Take care,
everybody.